feat: adding stacks integration guide (#757)
blockstack/docs: src/pages/stacks-blockchain/sending-tokens.md

---
title: Sending tokens

> description: Learn how to transfer tokens

Reviewer: This document is very NodeJS specific. We should call that out in the Introduction?

Separately, I wonder if it makes sense to either add some language agnostic description and/or link out to where people can get more information (e.g. the relevant SIPs)?

Author: Good points, will call out both!

tags:
  - tutorial
images:
  large: /images/pages/testnet.svg
  sm: /images/pages/testnet-sm.svg
---

## Introduction

This tutorial will walk you through the following steps:

- Specifying a sender key
- Generating a token transfer transaction
- Broadcasting the transaction to the network
- Checking transaction completion
- Confirming updates account balances (optional)

## Requirements

You will need [NodeJS](https://nodejs.org/en/download/) `8.12.0` or higher to complete this tutorial. You can verify your installation by opening up your terminal and run the following command:

```bash
node --version
```

You should also complete the [Managing accounts tutorial](/stacks-blockchain/managing-accounts). The following steps assume we have access to an exsiting Stacks 2.0 account.

## Step 1: Installing libraries

First install the stacks transactions library, a JavaScript [BigNum](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Arbitrary-precision_arithmetic) implementation, and the API client for the [Stacks 2.0 Blockchain API](/references/stacks-blockchain):

```shell
npm install --save @blockstack/stacks-transactions@0.6.0 bn.js @stacks/blockchain-api-client
```

## Step 2: Specifying a sender

> In order to build and sign transactions, you will need a Stacks privat key. You can easily generate a new, random Stacks 2.0 sender key (see ["Generating an account" from the previous tutorial](http://localhost:3000/stacks-blockchain/managing-accounts#step-2-generating-an-account)).

Reviewer: [typo] "privat"

Reviewer: Also, broken link (uses localhost)

For this tutorial, we will use an existing Stacks account and instantiate the key object from a private key string:

```js
const BN = require('bn.js');
const {
  makeSTXTokenTransfer,
  createStacksPrivateKey,
  broadcastTransaction,
  estimateTransfer,
  getNonce,
  StacksTestnet,
  privateKeyToString,
} = require('@blockstack/stacks-transactions');
const { TransactionsApi, Configuration } = require('@stacks/blockchain-api-client');

const apiConfig = new Configuration({
  fetchApi: fetch,
  basePath: 'https://stacks-node-api-latest.argon.blockstack.xyz',
});

const key = 'edf9aee84d9b7abc145504dde6726c64f369d37ee34ded868fabd876c26570bc01';
const senderKey = createStacksPrivateKey(key);
```

-> Note: The code above also imports methods required for the next steps, including API configuration for the client library usage.

## Step 3: Generating transaction

To generate a token transfer transaction, we will be using the `makeSTXTokenTransfer()` transaction builder function:

```js
const recipient = 'SP3FGQ8Z7JY9BWYZ5WM53E0M9NK7WHJF0691NZ159';

// amount of Stacks tokens to send (in microstacks). 1,000,000 microstacks are worth 1 STX token
const amount = new BN(1000000);

> // skip automatic fee estimation

Reviewer: I found this confusing. If we're skipping automatic fee estimation, shouldn't we be setting some meaningful values for the fee (or is 0 a useful default)?

Author: good point!

const fee = new BN(0);

// skip automatic nonce lookup
const nonce = new BN(0);

// override default setting to broadcast to the Testnet network
const network = new StacksTestnet();

const memo = 'hello world';

const txOptions = {
  recipient,
  amount,
  fee,
  nonce,
  senderKey: privateKeyToString(senderKey),
  network,
  memo,
};

...

const transaction = await makeSTXTokenTransfer(txOptions);
```

The generation method will need a few more pieces of information, as specified in the `txOptions` object:

| Parameter   | Description                                                                                                                      | Optional |
| ----------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------- |

> | `recipient` | The recipient Stacks address in c32check format                                                                                  | **No**   |

Reviewer: [nit] I don't think we've described what `c32check` format means anywhere in this doc. Maybe link to https://www.npmjs.com/package/c32check?

| `fee`       | The fee that the sender is willing to pay for miners to process the transaction. Denominated in microstacks                      | Yes      |
| `nonce`     | A nonce is an integer that needs to be incremented by 1 for each sequential transaction from the same account. Nonces start at 0 | Yes      |
| `senderKey` | A private key object                                                                                                             | Yes      |
| `network`   | Specifies whether the transaction is meant for Stacks Mainnet or Testnet                                                         | Yes      |
| `memo`      | A memo string to attach additional information to the transaction. This data is limited to 33 bytes                              | Yes      |

### Estimating fees

If not specified, the transaction builder will automatically estimate the fee. Estimated fee rate is supplied by a Stacks node so network access is required. The fee is calculated based on the estimate fee rate and the size of the transaction in bytes.

Another way to estimate the fee is to use the `estimateTransfer()` function after you have constructed a transaction:

```js

> estimateTransfer(transaction);

Reviewer: Is this a function with side-effects? That is, it updates the `fee` value within the `transaction`? If yes, probably out of scope for this PR, but 1) I'd generally argue against functions with side-effects -- they are error-prone. and 2) the name should reflect what the function does. It's not just estimating, it's actually estimating _and_ setting the fee.

cc/ @yknl

Author: I just checked the [source](https://github.com/blockstack/stacks-transactions-js/blob/master/src/builders.ts#L504) and it returns just the fee, no side-effects. The code example should be better, ie setting a fee var and update the tx

```

-> Note: By setting a fee in the transaction builder function, the automatic fee estimation step will be skipped.

### Handling nonces

If not specified, the transaction builder will automatically lookup the latest nonce for the sender account. Automatic nonce handling also requires network access. The nonce should be tracked locally when creating multiple sequential transactions from the same account. A Stacks node only updates the nonce once a transaction has been mined.

The updated nonce for each account can be retrieved manually using the `getNonce()` function:

```js
getNonce(senderAddress);
```

## Step 4: Broadcasting transaction

Next, we will broadcast the transaction to the Testnet using the `network` object we created earlier:

```js
const txId = await broadcastTransaction(transaction, testnet);
```

> As soon as the `broadcastTransaction` is completed, a transaction ID is returned.

Reviewer: Maybe worth re-iterating here that the fact you have a txId doesn't mean the transaction has completed executing.

---
title: Sending tokens
description: Learn how to transfer tokens
icon: TestnetIcon
duration: 15 minutes
experience: beginners
tags:
  - tutorial
images:
  large: /images/pages/testnet.svg
  sm: /images/pages/testnet-sm.svg
---

## Introduction

> This tutorial will walk you through the following steps:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This tutorial walks you through the following steps:
```

```shell
npm install --save @blockstack/stacks-transactions@0.6.0 bn.js @stacks/blockchain-api-client
```

-> The API client is generated from the [OpenAPI specification](https://github.com/blockstack/stacks-blockchain-api/blob/master/docs/openapi.yaml) ([openapi-generator](https://github.com/OpenAPITools/openapi-generator)). Many other languages and frameworks are be supported by the generator.

## Step 2: Specifying a sender

In order to build and sign transactions, you will need a Stacks private key. You can easily generate a new, random Stacks 2.0 sender key (see ["Generating an account" from the previous tutorial](/stacks-blockchain/managing-accounts#step-2-generating-an-account)).

For this tutorial, we will use an existing Stacks account and instantiate the key object from a private key string:

```js
const BN = require('bn.js');
const {
  makeSTXTokenTransfer,
  createStacksPrivateKey,
  broadcastTransaction,
  estimateTransfer,
  getNonce,
  StacksTestnet,
  privateKeyToString,
} = require('@blockstack/stacks-transactions');
const { TransactionsApi, Configuration } = require('@stacks/blockchain-api-client');

const apiConfig = new Configuration({

>   fetchApi: fetch,

Author: good point, let me add a note
